W-15760813 munit settings duke (#307)
mulesoft/docs-code-builder: modules/ROOT/pages/int-test-munit.adoc

[[prereqs]]
== Before You Begin

* Understand the fundamentals of MUnit. Refer to the MUnit documentation for an overview and guidance with test configurations:

** xref:munit::index.adoc[MUnit Overview]
** xref:munit::munit-test-concept.adoc[]
** xref:munit::event-processors.adoc[]
** xref:munit::munit-cookbook.adoc[]

> * You must have an enterprise license to configure your Maven `settings.xml`. See <<maven-settings>>.

Author: ```suggestion
* You must have an enterprise license to access MUnit resources through your Maven `settings.xml` file. See <<maven-settings>>.
```

[[prereqs]]
== Before You Begin

* Configure the settings required to run MUnit. 
+
For guidance, see <<maven-settings>>.

* Understand the fundamentals of MUnit. Refer to the MUnit documentation for an overview and guidance with test configurations:

** xref:munit::index.adoc[MUnit Overview]
** xref:munit::munit-test-concept.adoc[]
** xref:munit::event-processors.adoc[]
** xref:munit::munit-cookbook.adoc[]

For MUnit features supported by Anypoint Code Builder, see xref:acb-release-notes.adoc[]. Anypoint Studio supports testing with all MUnit features.

//
//MUNIT SETTINGS
[[maven-settings]]
== Configure Access to MUnit Features

> Configure your project to connect to MUnit resources. The process differs depending on whether you have a Mule enterprise edition (EE) license.

Author: ```suggestion
Make MUnit resources available to your project. The process differs depending on whether you have a Mule enterprise edition (EE) license.
```

* <<configure-settings-license-no>>:
+
If you _don't have_ a Mule EE license or if your license is a trial license, configure your `mule-artifact.json` for the project.
+
Access to MUnit features applies per project because of the project-level settings in `mule-artifact.json`.

[[configure-settings-license-yes]]
=== Configure Maven Settings (Licensed Access)

If you have a Mule EE license (_not a trial license_), configure `server` credentials  in the Maven file, `settings.xml`.

See xref:mule-runtime::installing-an-enterprise-license.adoc[Install an Enterprise License], to acquire or install an Enterprise license. If you are a MuleSoft customer and do not have credentials to access the https://repository.mulesoft.org/nexus-ee/content/repositories/releases-ee/[MuleSoft Enterprise repository^], contact Support and request Nexus enterprise credentials.

//navigate to settings.xml:
. {empty}
include::anypoint-code-builder::partial$acb-maven-settings.adoc[tag=nav-to-maven-settings]
. Specify `server` settings with your Mule username and password _within_ `<servers></servers>`:
+
[source,xml]

> ----

Reviewer: mule-ee repository should be added as "repository" too:
```
        <repository>
          <id>releases-ee</id>
          <name>Mule Release Repository</name>
          <url>https://repository-master.mulesoft.org/nexus/content/repositories/releases-ee</url>
        </repository>
```

Author: done

<server>
  <username>yourMuleUsername</username>
  <password>yourMulePassword</password>
  <id>releases-ee</id>
</server>
----

[[configure-settings-license-no]]
=== Configure Maven Settings (Unlicensed Access)

> If you do not own a Mule EE license or if your license is a trial license, configure your `mule-artifact.json` for the project.

Reviewer: I'd write something like:"...configure your `mule-artifact.json` for the project  to use mule community edition

=== Configure Maven Settings (Licensed Access)

If you have a Mule EE license (_not a trial license_), configure `server` credentials with `pluginRepository` settings in the Maven file, `settings.xml`.

See xref:mule-runtime::installing-an-enterprise-license.adoc[Install an Enterprise License], to acquire or install an Enterprise license. If you are a MuleSoft customer and do not have credentials to access the https://repository.mulesoft.org/nexus-ee/content/repositories/releases-ee/[MuleSoft Enterprise repository^], contact Support and request Nexus enterprise credentials.

//navigate to settings.xml:
. {empty}
include::anypoint-code-builder::partial$acb-maven-settings.adoc[tag=nav-to-maven-settings]
//add plugin repo setting:
. {empty}
include::anypoint-code-builder::partial$acb-maven-settings.adoc[tag=add-plugin-repo-settings]
. Specify `server` settings with your Mule username and password _within_ `<servers></servers>`:
+
[source,xml]
----
<server>
  <username>yourMuleUsername</username>
  <password>yourMulePassword</password>
  <id>releases-ee</id>
</server>
----

[[configure-settings-license-no]]
=== Configure Maven Settings (Unlicensed Access)

> If you do not have a Mule EE license or if your license is a trial license, configure your `mule-artifact.json` for the project and `pluginRepository` settings in the Maven file, `settings.xml`.

Reviewer: No settings are required when using community edition (just the change in mule-artifact.json is enough)

Author: done
